This is Pacifico Radio's Letters and Politics. On today's show, you know, she was always again, you know, we talk about that hyper vigilance, always very fearful and defensive. And then as she aged and developed dementia, it just became untenable after a time. It was a sort of a strange thing that happened. I just found as though like this kind of dinger descended out of the sky and hit me on the head. I just stopped feeling angry with her. You know, having an understanding of what has happened to other people and why they may be doing what they're doing or reacting in this way is useful. Marionette Pember's mother, Bernice Rabideau, was forced into a boarding school for indigenous children during the Great Depression. Today we're going to be in conversation with Marionette Pember about her mother, her relationship to her mother and the history of boarding schools. Marionette Pember is the author of the book Medicine A Story of Survival and the Legacy of Indian Boarding Schools. That's next on Letters and Politics. But first, the news. For Pacifica Radio, I'm Christina Onnestead. President Donald Trump is pushing for his big beautiful bill of tax breaks and spending cuts to be on his desk signed into law by Independence Day, July 4th. Trump met with Senate Majority Leader John Thune at the White House and has been dealing dialing senators for one on one chats to encourage them to pass the 1000 plus page budget package. Some GOP senators want to make changes to protect Medicaid, which faces $800 billion in cuts and to make sure some tax breaks become permanent. Democrat Minority Leader Chuck Schumer blasted Big Beautiful Bill act today on the Senate floor. Donald Trump and his so called big beautiful bill is ugly to its very core. Behind the smoke and mirrors lies a cruel and draconian truth. Tax breaks for the ultra wealthy paid for by gutting health care for millions of Americans. Over the past few days, Donald Trump has tried to sell this bill to Republican senators with a new lie. He's been telling Republican senators and the American people that no one will lose coverage, that no benefits will be slashed, that the bill won't harm recipients. Let's call it what it a lie. Schumer says Democrats support cutting, fraud, waste and abuse, a GOP justification for steep Medicaid cuts. But he noted most fraud and or abuse in Medicaid occurs from providers, not recipients. Condemnation is growing after the third mass shooting in three days of starving Palestinians lining up for food at a US Israeli backed aid distribution site in Gaza run by the Gaza humanitarian Foundation. Palestinian health officials and witnesses say Israeli forces opened fire on a crowd, killing at least 27 people. The army said it fired near a few individual suspects who left the designated route and approached its forces, ignoring warning shots. The near daily shootings have drawn condemnation at the United Nations. Jeremy Lawrence is a spokesperson for the UN's High Commissioner for Human Rights. He's warning of war crimes. Deadly attacks on distraught civilians trying to access the paltry amounts of food aid in Gaza are unconscionable. Palestinians have been presented the grimmest of choices die from starvation or risk being killed while trying to access the meager food that is being made available through Israel's militarized humanitarian assistance mechanism. This militarized system endangers lives and violates international standards on aid distribution. Amnesty International is calling on Israel to stop weaponizing starvation and calling on world nations to put pressure on the country to end the war, which Amnesty has called a genocide. It's urging actions that include stop arming Israel and pressure it to unconditionally lift what it calls a cruel blockade. A Russian rocket attack targeted the northeastern Ukrainian city of Sumy, killing at least four people and wounding 25 others. President Volodymyr Zelensky denounced the assault, saying it underscored Russia has no intentions of halting a three year old war. Just days after ceasefire talks, South Korea's liberal candidate Lee Jae Myung is forecast to win the country's early presidential election. Today's vote comes two months after conservative President Yoon Suk Yeol was removed from office over his short lived imposition of martial law. The exit poll by South Korea's three major TV stations show Lee projected to beat conservative candidate Kim Moon Su, who at a news conference today said he would accept the people's choice and congratulate his liberal rival. Tulsa's new mayor proposed a $100 million private trust as part of a reparations plan to give Descendants of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre scholarships and housing help. The proposal is a city backed bid to make amends for one of the world worst racial attacks in US history. Advocates for a higher minimum wage across the country have gathered for a conference. They called for a $25 an hour minimum wage. Christopher Martinez reports the activists are launching a campaign to raise the minimum wage, but they say it's about far more than just a single issue campaign. Yunissa Sernandez is a Los Angeles county supervisor. We are naming what giant corporations have stolen and we are coming for all of it. The wages, the dignity, the future. She was speaking at a press briefing in Santa Monica to launch a new national campaign called Living Wage for All, along with the Los Angeles Living Wage for All coalition. It builds on a recent success in Los Angeles, which passed a $30 minimum wage for hospitality workers ahead of the 2028 Olympics. Now they're asking, what about all the other workers? Since after all, nearly half of all workers nationwide make less than $25 an hour and the federal minimum wage is stuck at $7.25. Anali AB Mejia is co director of the center for Popular Democracy, one of the groups organizing the campaign. You know and I know that in a nation where there is such obscene, there sure as hell is enough resources and money to make sure that people aren't working full time and sleeping in their cars. That's right. Reporting for Pacifica Radio News, KPFA, I'm Christopher Martinez. The U.S. supreme Court has agreed to hear an appeal from a private prison company facing a lawsuit claiming immigration detainees were forced to work and paid $1 a day in the state of Colorado. The high court took up the case Monday. Private prison company Geo Group appealed to the Supreme Court after a judge refused to toss out the 2014 lawsuit. The prison profiteer says the lawsuits are a back door to push back against federal immigration policy and its pay rates are in line with ice, Immigration and Customs Enforcement regulations. I'm Christina Onnestead reporting for Pacifica Radio. Good day and welcome to Letters and Politics. I'm Mitch Jesurich. Today we're going to be in conversation about the history of boarding schools for indigenous children, really from after the Civil war until the 1970s. Many, many children during this span of time were taken from their families, many of them forcibly, to live at these schools where they were forced to work and where the schools, mostly run by churches, try to get these children to unlearn their own communities, ways of life and take up a more mainstream, mostly white way. My guest today, Mary Annette Pember, has a very personal connection to this history, as many indigenous people do. Her mother was forced into a boarding school at the age of five. Mary Annette Pember has written a memoir about her mom and about boarding schools. It is called Medicine River A Story of Survival and the Legacy of Indian Boarding Schools. Marionette Pember is a citizen of the Red Cliff Band of Wisconsin, Ojibwe. She is currently the national correspondent for ICT News, formerly known as India Indian Country. Today, Mariannette Pember, it's my good pleasure to welcome you to this program. Thank you for taking this time. Thanks for having me, Mitch. Tell Me about your mom, Bernice Robideaux. Again, this is a memoir. This is about your relationship to your mom. This is about your mom's experience in these boarding schools, about your mom's experience with her mom as well. But your mom saw you as the one who was going to tell this story, didn't she? Yeah, she very much did. She didn't really talk to my brothers about it. I grew up with a half brother and then one brother who shared. We shared the same parentage, but she didn't really tell them anything about it. But these were my stories about her time at the boarding school, St. Mary's Catholic Boarding School on the Bad River Reservation in Wisconsin. They were my bedtime stories, really. And she called it. The people there called the school the Sister School and the Sisters. That was actually kind of, for a period of time, the running title was Sister School Stories. I grew up listening to those. And she would tell them usually like with herself as, you know, really triumphant, you know, as somebody who's, you know, the little girl who stood up for herself and which she did. But, you know, when I was really little, she didn't always include some of the more painful parts of the stories and those I kind of uncovered for myself much later. Do your mom just recognize that you are, you are a storyteller? I mean, you obviously, you've written a book, you're a journalist. I even heard the special you did on Reveal, the two part podcast on boarding schools. Did your mom, do you think your mom recognized that you are a storyteller? Do you think it was because you're the daughter? Well, you know, Ojibwe women are storytellers. That is kind of our job in the culture, if you will, especially as we get older. We are older women, like old ladies. The term for old lady is the one who holds things together. And the way that we hold things together is through story. So Ojibwe women are really known for their storytelling abilities. So I think that it was just sort of a natural relationship that she felt that, you know, that we had and that she. So that was, I think, somewhat motivated her to pass it on to me. And I think she also felt that as a, as a Native woman, I would need as much help as I could get to survive in this white world again. Your mom, was. Was she forcibly taken at the age of five into the boarding school? Well, you know, I mean, it was forcibly in the sense that there was no place else for her to go. Her parents had broken up and she was staying with her Grandparents who really, at that time, it was during the Great Depression, and they really didn't have the finances to care for them. And that was the only alternative at the time. So they were placed in the sister school, she and her. Her siblings. And they were placed together? Yes, they were all placed together. Correct. And again, this. This is technically known as St. Mary's Catholic Indian Mission School in Wisconsin. Correct. It changed names occasionally. It was St. Mary's industrial Indians boarding school. School is now closed. However, the little parish is still there. The little church is still there. I think everyone knows the term and has heard about boarding schools, but maybe not precisely understand what they were. How do you describe what a boarding school was? Well, you know, students, native. It was. The whole boarding school program was really part of a much broader series of assimilationist policies that the federal government pursued, especially after the Civil War, though it was, you know, has far deeper roots, actually, that predate the establishment of the United States. Missionaries have always come here, even early on with the explorers, with some of the, you know, the express mission to convert, you know, native people and to extinguish their culture, if you will, as a means to sort of, you know, to get access to their. To their resources and so on. So it became more for. It became formalized really, after the Civil War and in addition to other policies such as Indian removal in the 1830s, taking people, you know, away from their land and moving them off and, you know, west of the Mississippi and allotment, which in many ways is. Was more effective and more devastating than boarding schools. Just the whole process of this sort of forced education and acculturation, separating people from their lands and their means to provide for their families, that was especially effective. So it was like, I often describe it as sort of a triple whammy that happened to Native people after the Civil War. Taken together, these assimilationist policies were incredibly effective. But not, you know, but. But they didn't stamp out our languages and cultures entirely. But it was really part of this broader effort, you know, to separate us from our resources. And the way that people thought would be most effective would be to extinguish our culture and languages. Were these schools, were they places where kids mostly went to work? It was. The education was really primarily labor oriented. There wasn't really much in the way of what we would think of today as education. Kind of very basic reading, writing and arithmetic. But it was primarily, primarily to teach Native people how to be part of white culture at a very, you know, kind of rudimentary level as servants. So there was a great emphasis placed on manual labor. And people had. The children had to raise. They often had to raise their own food and they would, you know, produce clothing and so on. So a great deal of the day spent at boarding schools and even at day schools, you know, not everybody boarded at the schools. Later, they created a lot of day schools as well, but there was a great emphasis placed on labor. Richard Henry Pratt, who founded one of the country's first Native American boarding schools, said that famously said to. This was meant to kill the Indian and save the man. Yes. And I think at that time, that was really seen as, you know, very progressive. And it was like a more humane alternative to outright extermination, which was really the only alternative at that time. And additionally, it was far cheaper. You know, it was really expensive to kill Indians and to war against Indians, but taking the children away from their homes and, you know, extinguishing their culture and language was far cheaper and they felt would have a lasting impact. So at the time, I mean, he was really seen as a kind of a rabid reformer, which, of course, you know, looking back, seems kind of absurd. However, you know, it was really, you know, we're looking at the dawn of the Progressive Era. So, I mean, he had. He had the ear of a lot of reformers of that era, so they had. He had a great deal of support. Yeah. I wanted to ask about the Progressive Era, that this is. A lot of. This is the formation of a lot of this is during this Progressive Era. And this, I guess, is a fine example of the racism that came with that Progressive era. Exactly. Tell me about your mom's experience in boarding school. What stories did she tell you? Well, she would talk a lot about, although she was, you know, she was frequently, you know, beaten and so on. For her, really, what. Much more painful were the messages, you know, that she received, you know, that she was just sort of a priori, as a Native person, she was bad and wrong, and everything about that was bad and wrong and changed. They would often call her dirty Indian. And that was just sort of in general, you know, the terms that they were. That they would use, you know, in the school. And I think in general, the message was, you know, you children, you're, you know, you're not. Right. You're not, you know, you. You got. You've had an up, you know, substandard birth and upbringing. And, you know, we're going to help you overcome that, you know, by writing it over with these, you know, sort of emphasis of hard work. There was Such an emphasis on labor. Very, very early, you know, it was that somehow their people were very concerned that Native people didn't work all the time. And I think early on, people, you know, they did work, but they didn't, you know, do this sort of mindless labor, which was what was envisioned. Even the first. You know, the person who was first appointed as the head of the Indian office was a quaker named Thomas McKinney. And he has. I have a great quote from him that he talks about. You know, it's hard manual labor that these Indians need. We really need to inculcate them, you know, with an acceptance for this hard labor. And even far earlier than that, you know, in writings that Jesuit missionaries would return to Europe, they would complain about Native people not working hard enough and not working all the time. And I think probably would have happened Native people would, like, binge work, you know, if there was, like, something that, you know, they were harvesting, something, hunting and so on. And in between times, they would spend time, like, talking and creating consensus and so on. And that just outrage these people, you know, the missionaries especially, that these Indians were just sitting around talking too much and they weren't working and producing tangible results of their labor. Yeah, binge working. I've heard that's sort of the natural way of working because, you know, for thousands of years, we're dealing with agriculture, and there are moments of intense work in which you had to do a lot, and then there's just a lot of, like, waiting for things to work their magic after you've done the work. Well, in this, you know, talking and creating consensus and also, you know, really nurturing and supporting the culture. I mean, those were things that were, you know, really important to Native people and that are still really, really important to Native people. Is anyone making a profit off this labor? Well, I think, you know, there wasn't a whole lot of profit in terms of, you know, like, the federal governments or so on, but I think it did. When we look at, especially the Catholic Church, you know, I think that really, their labor with Native people, with, you know, education and with healthcare and so on, I mean, that helped really, you know, helped place them, you know, in the position they have today in the United States. And, you know, they have great influence, you know, so I think in many ways, their success was paid by their work with Native people. How does this work? Are these federal government run? I mean, I'm sure there's even some diversity among. Amongst these schools and how they operate and where they come from. But largely speaking, are These federal government sponsored schools that are run by the church or. Well, there are some. So. Well, we need to define what period we're talking about. So when we're talking about, you know, sort of the heyday, if you will, of the boarding school era, you're talking post Civil War, up until, you know, the early 20th century. So it was a federal program, you know, run by basically, you know, money from trust and treaty funds. By the way, there is a class action lawsuit that was just recently brought against the government and the Department of the Interior, naming the current secretary, Doug Borglum, and asking for an accounting of all the money. The trust and treaty funds that were spent, you know, that were actually part of treaties. They were like two thirds of the treaties made with Native people had an element regarding education, providing education. So they're just. They're seeking an accounting of that. I'm sorry. And I kind of lost. Yeah, I was just sort of. We were getting into the. The connection between federal government and. In different time periods and everything. Yeah. So some of the schools were directly funded and are still directly funded by the federal government. However, there's. There were a number of schools, primarily Catholic schools, in the late 18th, or rather late 19th and early 20th century that received federal funding in order to educate Native people. There was a law, there was a Supreme Court decision actually in 1908, Quick Bear v. Loop, that found that it was not, you know, did not run counter to the constitutional separation of church and state for Indians to, quote, unquote, exercise their choice in how their children, how their monies were spent to educate their children. You know, conversely, of course, Native people at the time couldn't practice their spirituality, which was illegal because of the Indian code of courts system. But, you know, they did devise a workaround so that federal monies could be used. So Native people had to agree. And the way that they often agreed was by signing on to a petition. And most people were illiterate at that time. And so I actually was able to find some of these petitions that were signed basically by people's thumbprints. And the reason people did it is because frequently the Catholic schools and the religious schools were operating closer to the reservation, so at least they could see their children occasionally. Didn't the federal government also give the land to these schools and to the church's land that was indigenous land? Oh, yeah. But, you know, during the allotment period, and even in there were many special kind of presidential decisions, you know, executive orders, if you will, giving full allotments to churches and We've, you know, I've kind of fiddled around with trying to find an accounting of that. Certainly in the, you know, we did find, I did find one document and this is just the Catholic Church and remember there were many other Christian denominations that also operated the school, although towards the end it was primarily the Catholics. I did find one document and we're probably talking about now, you know, in excess of probably 10,000 acres that is still owned by churches and we really don't know or you know, subsidiaries or, you know, there's no real central, you know, ownership in the Catholic Church. And that's sort of the Catholic Church's workaround. Often, you know, there is no centralized Catholic church, if you will. You know, it's like maybe schools or the lands are owned by various orders, you know, priests and nuns or by various parishes or other sort of sub organ Catholic organizations. But yeah, they still own this land and technically it should have been, you know, if it's no longer functioning as a school, it was supposed to be returned to the tribes. And I think in a lot of cases that hasn't happened. This is still an issue today then. Still an issue today. There's never been a full accounting. And tribes are trying to get this land back. You know, we still don't know. They're trying to find out how much land and where it is. So there's still, and they're still looking, you know, for an accounting. And then presumably the next step would be trying to find out about getting the land returned. The land actually where the Wounded Knee battle was, was occurred or. Well, it was actually Wounded Knee massacre was owned by Red Cloud School until pretty recently and they finally returned it to the tribe. This is letters and politics. And we are in conversation with Mary Annette Pember. She is the author of the book Medicine River A Story of Survival and Legacy of Indian Boarding Schools. You, you just mentioned Red Cloud Indian School. You've done a lot of reporting about what is happening at the school I referenced earlier. I did listen to the two part documentary that you did for reveal on this. This is, it was a very deep two part documentary about this particular boarding school. Can you tell me about it? You would put me on the spot for that. It's been a while. It's been a couple of years since I did this. Well, there were a lot of allegations about deaths at the school over the years. And the school is very old. I mean it's probably one of the oldest. It no longer boards students, but it actually predates the formation of the Pine Ridge of the Oglala Sioux Tribal Reservation. So it's been around for a really long time, and there were a lot of allegations about children dying there and, you know, where they were buried and so on. And. And then there have been, you know, a lot of stories with, you know, and then the community Pine. The little town of Pine Ridge, which is actually the administrative base of the Oglala Sioux Tribe. Allegations about people being, you know, buried in secret and, you know, hidden. Hidden burials. Hidden. Hidden graves. And so we went out to try to find out about that, and they finally did do some remote sensing, you know, trying to get a sense if there were any, you know, anomalies. And they did find a couple, and they did unearth them and they did not find, you know, any burials. But there's just, you know, they have a long presence there on the reservation, and people that live there have a lot of questions about the history and, you know, how, you know, how they came to possess as much land as they did and do and their role in the community. I think it's, you know, it's. Some people are, you know, have proudly and proudly do, you know, attend now. It's not called Red Cloud School anymore. It originally was called Holy Rosary School, and then it was named after former Chief Red Cloud. And then now it has another name that I think is in the Lakota language. But there's a lot of ambivalence about that school. I think the Jesuits essentially have, you know, have played and continue to play an enormous role in it. It's a very. It's really a rather exclusive school. You're not going to find a lot of support for. For instance, if people were to need any kind of real educational support or if people who. Children who face any kind of developmental delays and so on. I mean, they educate. They really like to educate. The cream of the crop. And one has to have a lot of support to go to that school and, you know, have a lot of. A lot of brain power. And then consequently, they were able to claim that, you know, great success. So in some ways, you know, you know, as you can see, it's sort of a double edged sword. As I said, people feel a little ambivalent about that school. Yeah. And a lot of questions. Again, a lot of graves of children. You know, there's a time when childhood mortality was much higher than we recognized today. Yet there are questions as if some of these kids were even killed in Mass. You know, I hear those stories often. Unfortunately, I haven't really been able to Find any concrete evidence. There's a lot of, there's always a lot of stories about babies being thrown into incinerators and which I assume would be unwanted pregnancies. And those are stories that sort of permeate Indian country. But I haven't really been able to find a smoking gun on that. So I've been reluctant to report about it. Yeah. What you found at is sort of the conditions that you found at this point school common amongst boarding schools? Well, you know, as I said, as I said, you know, if we're talking in the present day, yeah, I would say no. And again, it's not a boarding school today. It doesn't board. It's a day school. There are still some government supported Bureau of Indian Education which is under the agency of the Department of Interior that does fund some boarding schools and some day schools in Indian country. It's tremendously underfunded agency. The often the buildings are not in very good shape and although the pay is not bad for teachers and so on, you know, the remoteness, it doesn't seem to really attract a lot of teachers and support staff. They're kind of. Many of the schools are sort of billed as therapeutic. So for children who may be struggling with maybe family issues or mental health issues or developmental challenges, those, you know, and maybe. And the services are not available at their home reservation. Those, you know, the parents may opt to send the children to these schools but unfortunately they're not really very well funded and we often have, you know, we have reports about wrongdoing and just really poorly provided services. But the Bureau of Indian Education is also a very opaque agency. So they're really, it's been very difficult to report on them. What are the long term effects of boarding schools? What do we know? Well, again, you know, the boarding schools of today I think are not, you know, they have, have changed quite a bit in their focus. But historically the boarding schools my mother attended, my grandmother attended, my aunts and uncles and many of my cousins attended was really this, you know, constant messaging of being wrong and being a bad, being a bad person, being told that you're bad and that you're wrong over and over again, generationally, not surprisingly has a bad impact, a bad impact on people. And also being separated from your family, not being able to access nurturing of your family also has a negative impact on people. And I think particularly on my mother, you know, who never forgave her mother were abandoning her, she felt was abandonment. And her mother, you know, in, in reading my book, you'll Find that she, my grandmother really had no choice. I mean, it was. It was straight up bare bones survival, you know, physical survival for her really required leaving her children. And they were cared for, which they weren't cared for in a very. In a very thoughtful way or a very nurturing way, but physically they did survive. But that survival has come at a real cost and a cost that I think in many ways has been handed down even to people like me and even subsequent generations. That messaging, it kind of took root in us and it's. I think it would have happened to any group of people. I don't think it happened to native people because we're biologically inferior in some way or, you know, we're too weak. I think had any, you know, group of people, race of people, if you will, were subjected to such conditions over generations, they would find that they would carry forward, you know, some of these, you know, some of these trauma, these really trauma responses to being raised in that way. So that's something that I very much, you know, saw in my mother. I think she struggled a lot with mental illness and I think a lot of it was brought on by, you know, we could talk about, you know, response to trauma, post traumatic stress disorder and so on. And she did not have. There was really no venue and no mechanism at all for, you know, one didn't talk about those things. I mean, you just went on, you know, she just survived. But I think it really took a terrible toll on her and she did not parent us in a good way because of that. I want to come back to that about your mother and your grandmother here in a moment, but. But I do want to ask about your thoughts about how trauma can affect people's genes and if it could be passed down through genes. Well, you know, that's something we have to be careful about discussing because it's complicated. And the reason that we, I think we have to be very careful is because we can get over into something called eugenics, which, you know, really actually enforced a lot of federal policies and kind of continues to today that people, some people are just biologically inferior, prone to dise and sort of, you know, physically weak. And that's not the case. You know, one doesn't inherit that. What one can inherit is the way that your gene, the genes would express themselves. So for instance, if you are subjected to this ongoing, perhaps let's use an example like hunger, you know, of always being subjected to this. Well, it might activate certain responses in us that we might pass on, you know, to our progeny but it isn't, you know, I think expressing it as a trait, you know, is. Is a real mistake. I think. How to say this, it's a. It's sort of a difficult needle to thread. But as I said, I think if. Had any. Any race of people been subjected to these kinds of conditions, they might have reacted in this way. So people might, you know, react to stress and to trauma in ways, you know, that may have been, you know, activated by certain gene expressions. But it's a very. It's still, you know, it's an experimental science that we're talking epigenetics that we're talking about. And there have been a lot. There has been a great deal of research looking at people who survived the Holocaust and their progeny and, you know, the impact on them. So, you know, it is. You know, like I said, it's complex. And I think we have to be really careful about the way that we talk about it, because I think it sends that. That really terrible message that unfortunately, you know, forward a lot of federal policy, both here and in Canada. For instance, you know, when there was this big surge in tuberculosis after the Civil War, as we started seeing a lot of immigration from Europe, and people were crammed into these terrible and healthy environments, you know, well, they started, you know, it was just sort of these perfect environments for contagion. So people started. People started contracting tuberculosis. And in Canada, for instance, the bureaucrats working, you know, in Indian agencies constructed a kind of tuberculosis they called Indian tb. And, you know, they constructed this. This. This framework that native people were more prone to getting TB because they were weak. And of course, that's not the case, you know, at all. I mean, as I said, they had. Were forced to live in what could arguably be these perfect, you know, situations in which, you know, diseases were contracted. And the disease of the era was tuberculosis. Yeah, the eugenics movement, also. The progressive era, Right. Yeah. Just like the boarding schools. They all thought they were doing good. They really did. You know, there was such a big emphasis on hygiene, which was good. You know, I mean, that was sort of. But all mixed up in these kinds of beliefs, you know, regard. And eugenics, you know, we can't underscore. I was really shocked doing research for the book. I mean, this was not, you know, sort of like junk science. You know, this was part of mainstream education. Education. I mean, they taught. This is like in. Taught in courses at Harvard and so on. I mean, people really deeply believe these things. And, you know, until the 1970s, I think in something like 30 states, it was legal to forcibly sterilize people who were thought to be somehow inferior racially or mentally inferior. So. And that's the 1970s. So not surprisingly, those kinds of beliefs, I think live on today. We could even see, see it in our current political leadership discussions, you know, regarding certain countries in Africa and also, you know, these sort of carriers and we talk about, you know, immigrants, these suggestions that people coming to hear from, from Central and South America bring, quote, unquote, bad blood. I mean, I think that hearkens back to those old eugenics theories. Yeah. Oh yeah. I've had friends come up to me and ask and talk about trauma affecting genes in some way. And I like how you describe it. Sort of a gene expression. And I always dismissed it. I thought, I don't know about that. But in preparing for our conversation, actually I looked not deeply, but a little more into it and saw, oh no, there is questions about this. It's not very well understood, but. But it very well may have some kind of impact on gene expression, which I guess makes sense because trauma is. And responding to trauma is a natural way to survive. Yeah. And you know, if you're in, I mean, if one thinks of it, I mean, it's, you know, you can't believe that they actually, somebody actually had to study this to prove it. I mean, if you're in this state of constant hyper vigilance and if you're raised by, by parents who are in the states of, of hyper vigilance, you know, it has an impact on you, you know, so you might become perhaps more hyper vigilant, more, you know, frightened. Always just on guard against something, you know, something happening. I mean, being raised in that environment, even if we don't look at the physical impacts, you could certainly see, you know, the mental impacts would be there. You know, it's not like such a mystery. And which always confounds me that it often gets sort of framed, as I said, like weakness. You know, why didn't you just overcome this? It's like, wow, you know, so a lot to quote unquote, overcome. So much is really ingrained in you, you know, from childhood. Marionette pember. It's my understanding that as you were researching for this book, and I think going into congressional records, you'll correct me if I misremember that part, you unexpectedly came upon your grandmother's own name. Yes, I did. And I was, you know, I found myself looking. And a lot of the stuff is available online. It's sometimes it's, you know, just copies of the original records. And the type is like, really, really tiny. So I would, you know, spend a long time gazing at this tiny type late at night, and I forget exactly what. At that time, I was kind of pursuing some sort of line of inquiry, and my grandmother's name popped out. And, you know, this is a woman who just. There it is. There you are, There you are. You're looking at this, you know, hard to read stuff, and suddenly there's your grandmother, mother's name. Yes. And this is a woman I never met. She died just the. The year before I was born. I heard nothing but really negative things from my mother about her. My mother. Even the week my mother died, she spoke poorly about her. About her mother and her mother choosing to survive versus staying to take care of her children. And it turned out that my. That Grandma Seal, as we called her, she, you know, she did. She spent about like eight years at the sister school. And I was able to find her enrollment record. And they did, you know, they would have these forms that they printed, and basically they had to fill these out and send them to the gov. To the federal government so they could get paid for, you know, educating these children. And they had a lie about why children left. And under after Grandma Seals name, it just said reason for leaving? No good reason. She just. I don't know. Either you got sick of it, or I don't know why she left. But in ninth grade, she dropped out. But she did learn, you know, one of the things they taught them at these schools was about, you know, lessons about civics. There's a great emphasis on, you know, one being about citizenship, being involved, you know, voting and so on. And that was a message, that was a duty to know about these things. And Grandma Seal must have taken that pretty seriously. She had a brother who was arrested and taken to another reservation, and she made bold inquire about if there was a warrant, you know, for his arrest. And the Indian agency said, well, no, we don't need one. And she said, well, how is that, you know, she knew about due process, you know, and I was. I was floored. She knew about this and she, you know, she challenged it. And actually she wrote letters to her state representatives who at the time, coincidentally, you know, fortuitously were investigating a lot of corruption and in the Indian agencies, which many ways was sort of a place for sort of an entrepreneurial opportunity to be placed in the. To be placed in these agencies at that time. And they actually ended up taking her letter, you know, to this congressional hearing and she sent a notarized letter asking about this, how her brother could be arrested. And he. She found him, he was like, jailed with a ball and chain attached to his leg and with no formal charges, he and a bunch of other Native people. So the upshot is that they let him go. But then I was able to find out more about her. She was described as a responsible woman and a group of responsible women on the reservation. And she was one of the founders of one of the first League of Women vote Native League of Women Voters. I was able to speak to an archivist with the League of Women's Voters. And they actually had, from the early 1930s, a report that clearly described my grandmother's efforts and her work and that they wanted the same thing that we want for our families and our communities. We want education and support for our children and for the aged, equal representation in the courts of law. So. But the amazing thing, nobody, none of my relatives have ever heard this about Seal. You know, @ that time, that was shortly after this happened, she had this terrible, you know, blow up with her husband and he tried to kill her and. And she just fled, you know, for her life. But nobody has any recollection of that, you know, that she was just this firebrand, you know, at a time when women, you know, women's suffrage was just emerging. Native people just got their, you know, they were granted citizenship. So that was just, you know, it was kind of, you know, I don't know. One doesn't, you know, as a journalist, you know, we believe, quote, unquote, in facts. But there was something kind of spiritual about that to me. You know, just to. To out of nowhere, you know, to see her name jump out. And I will say that there were work. There's been a couple of things in this work that have emerged like that, and I. One could describe it. Well, you place yourself in. In a certain proximity, you know, those things might happen and if, you know, if you're attuned to being aware of them. But I sort of choose it, to see that it in. In the way that I work. And I have a belief that we are sort of destined, if you will, to be part of something greater than ourselves, to make a contribution. And I think, you know, if you follow kind of what's in front of you, sometimes you can be part of something better, bigger than yourself, and you can help forward, you know, a certain mission. So, yeah, I guess I sound. Perhaps that sounds a little, you know, crazy, and particularly given the political environment, but I do, you know, I do Think that I am part of something really important. And in my small way, in my way, I am half. I am helping to advance, you know, knowledge and history of what happened to Native people as a result of these assimilationist policies in our country. Well, when I think about this amazing find again, you never met your grandmother. She died a year, I think you said, a year before you were born. Correct. And then finally to have her name show up and learn all these things about her that no one even seemed to remember. I mean, I just. I personally get goosebumps. I got goosebumps listening to that right now and thinking about that. That connection, you know. And then there actually is another example. I don't know if you recall reading in the book about finding validation about one of those sister school stories that my mother to used to tell me as a child about a particular sister. Sister Catherine, Mother Superior. Sister Catherine, who is the principal of St. Mary's boarding schools. And she was, you know, she was particularly harsh. And my mother would often talk. She said she thought that maybe in some ways she had some mental health issues, but she was just extremely brutal. My mother described being beaten after stealing an apple. And when she was quite young, she told me about the story that Sister Mary Catherine, around Christmas time, fell down the cellar steps and hit her head. And she died after a few days. And my mom said, oh, us kids did such a silent cheer. You know, that was the best Christmas present we could have gotten. And that's sort of a story that circulates on the reservation there. So it was at the archives, which for the Bureau of Catholic Indian Admissions, which are currently reside at Marquette Catholic University in Milwaukee and at the Rayner Collection. And I was looking through all these, you know, administrative back and forth. There really is not a lot describing the children's lives, to be honest, you know, as far as, like, their report cards and so on. But I found a letter from the. The assistant principal at St. Mary's School to the Bureau of Catholic Indian missions in Washington, D.C. saying by the time this letter reaches you, our Mother Superior Catherine will likely have, you know, met her destination in heaven. Because a couple days before Christmas, she was going down the cellar steps and she fell down and the last step hit her head so hard that it drove her glasses into her head. And she is now in a coma. And the sister nurse says it can hardly but be but a few hours before she passes. And I know you'll join us in prayer for her everlasting salvation. I read that letter and I stood straight up out of my seat in this archives. You know, here it was this sort of smoking gun, you know, for, you know, my childhood of all of these stories. And if I had any doubts I feel about, you know, the worthiness of this project, it was removed. Then again, your mom told you many of her stories about the boarding school when. When you were young, when you were older, you were your mom's caretaker. Yes. And it's unheard of to have complicated relationships with one's parents. Tell. That would be your case as well as you write about. Tell me about your relationship to your mom. You know, she was always. Again, you know, we talk about that hyper vigilance, always very fearful and defensive. And then as she aged and developed dementia, it just became untenable. And she had a. She had quite a temper. And she was. She was a tiny little person. She was, like, about 5ft tall, probably never weighed more than 100 pounds, but she was a. She was a force to be reckoned with. And, you know, the people that she. Eventually we did place, we had to place her in, you know, a nursing home. And she would really rattle those people. They would call me and, you know, say, you got to come up here and help us, because your mom is just really, you know, making everybody crazy. So she was. She was a challenging person. And during that time, I was. She basically worn everybody out, you know, everybody in our family. And although, you know, my brother, certainly, God bless him, he really, you know, went above and beyond. But at that time, I was in recovery, you know, from alcoholism, and. And I was really struggling with my relationship with her as many of us struggle with our relationships, alcoholic or otherwise, with our. With our parents. And I would go to. I was going to Alcoholics Anonymous, and I would, you know, spend a lot of time complaining about my relationship with my mom and how she was making me crazy and so on. And I had a sponsor at the time, and that is. I don't. People know the structure of aa. People, other members function as sponsors. It's just. It's like a real unofficial thing, but they offer you support and so on. And my sponsor gave me an assignment, and she said she wanted me to pray for my mother every day. And there were no directives about. There were no specifics to be part of these prayers. I was just supposed to pray for her to have peace. So I started, and after a time, it was a sort of a strange thing that happened. I just found as though, like, this kind of dinger descended out of the sky and hit me on the head. I Just stopped feeling angry with her. And I think what it really happened was it stopped being about me and my hurt feelings and so on and more about understanding her and, you know, situating her in her life and all she went through and survived. And I was able to be of service to her for those last years. And that was like a tremendous gift. You know, I stopped having to argue with her and be correct or and so on, and I would just redirect her, you know, and she would be very concerned that people were. She was always concerned people were stealing from her. And I think that's not uncommon for people to experience as we age. But, you know, I was able to, as I said, be of service to her and, you know, to really, you know, help her going forward. And I was with her when she died, and I didn't have any woulda, coulda, shouldas about our relationship. Of course, it was more painful than her passing was more painful than I imagined it would be. Nothing's ever all stitched up and so on, and. But, you know, it. It was. It was like probably the greatest gift I ever got my whole life, really, is just the release of this anger and resentment towards her and realizing it wasn't about, you know, it was in response to what happened to her. And I think that's part of, you know, if you get into all these sort of trauma sciences and of course it's, you know, some of these ways of looking at trauma, some people have debunked them. And I mean, you know, one could get quite deep into these various ways of viewing it. However, I will say that, you know, having an understanding of what has happened to other people and why they may be doing what they're doing or reacting in this way is useful in a lot of ways. It's useful emotionally and it's useful mentally, and it was useful for me. You had insight into your mom. I mean, you. You sort of saw where some of. Maybe. Do you think some of these tendencies. The more. And look, people. People can be difficult anyways. But do you think that some of these tendencies were directly related to the boarding school experience? Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I do think so. That messaging, you know, that fearfulness, that hyper vigilance, always being on defense, you know, she had such an enormous chip on her shoulder because that was all. She was always under attack, you know, growing up, and is not surprising that one would emerge with those kinds of tendencies. So it really helped me understand her more and kind of released, you know, my blaming, you know, her for not being A good enough mother. And actually, in retrospect, I was able to say she did an incredible job. I mean, she did. She gave me something and my brother something she never could have dreamed of as a child. She stayed, you know, and she housed us and fed us. She was a little crazy sometimes, but, you know, she did keep us safe. And do you think she was motivated to do that? Because of her. I mean, we're naturally motivated to do that anyways. But also her being. Having to go to a boarding school and being felt, I think, abandoned by her mom. Oh, yeah, I think very much so, you know, but she didn't really know how to parent us because she actually had no experience of parenting. But that was her great dream, I think, you know, to have a family. And she was funny. She would always, always describe her family as close. And I would think to myself, who are you talking about? The neighbors? Because I don't feel like our family's close. I feel like we're just sort of hanging on and surviving, you know, by our toenails. But. But for her, she realized a great dream. You know, she, you know, became a parent and raised a family. It's interesting to me that you. I think you called it a dinger. A dinger came when suddenly you sort of saw your mom in a little bit of a different way. And it was through. It sounded like through prayer. You were praying for her and kind of led up to that. And I might be going way out of. Out of into left field here, but it reminds me of a Buddhist meditation called Loving Kindness, where you meditate on wishing yourself love and kindness, but then also the person that you're struggling with or even don't like. Yeah, and that's why I actually call it a dinger and not a magic wand or. I don't really want to connect it to anything necessarily, like, I don't know, specific religion or spirituality, but just, I don't know, kind of surrendering to the great mystery, whatever that is for you. You know, sometimes they send you dingers. Yeah. With these dingers. Marionette Pember has been our guest again. Mary Annette Pember is a citizen of the Red Cliff Band of Wisconsin, Ojibwe. She is currently national correspondent for IC News, formerly known as Indian Country Today, and she has joined us for a conversation about her memoir. It's called Medicine River A Story of Survival and the Legacy of Indian Boarding Schools. Mary Annette Pember, that was a very deep story that you told, and I thank you for your willingness to tell it to us. Well, thank you so much for having me, Mitch. I really appreciate it. It's been a pleasure that does it for letters and politics. The show is produced by Deanna Martinez. Kirsten Thomas is the engineer. I'm Mitch Jesarich and I thank you for listening. Looking for something real on the radio, from bold new and fierce analysis to deep music cuts and cultural storytelling, KPFA's got it. Want to see what we're serving up? Head to kpfa.org and check out our programming schedule. It's all there, hour by hour, day by day. And if you miss something, don't stress. Our archives are full of gems. Ready when you are. So go ahead, click around, explore and sample something new. Independent radio is alive and kicking and it lives at kpfa. I get knocked down, but I get up again. You're never gonna keep me down. This is 94.1 KPFA and 89.3 Kpfb in Berkeley, 88.1 KFCF in Fresno and online everywhere@kpfa.org.