Freedom means more choice, and more choice is typically a good thing. Our society, a capitalistic society, has plenty of choice. And the insurance industry is no exception to this. Everyone's needs, goals, desires, interests are different. And the insurance industry is ready to meet you with a product to meet those desires and needs, needs. The question is, which one actually makes sense? And do you even need the insurance? Most people don't wake up seeking insurance, but you do need it. And when you do want it, it's typically when you need it, unfortunately. So that's why we have Jerry here. Jerry is our insurance specialist, Jerry Clark. And we're going to ask some different questions about the different types of permanent life insurance. Jerry, how you doing? Doing pretty good. How are you doing today? I'm doing pretty good. I'm doing pretty good. Not many people get fired up about insurance, but that's why we got you here. Most boring conversation in the world. Yeah, sure, yeah. There's these different types. You know, we have the index Universal Life, the variable Universal Life, and the whole Life policy that we're going to talk through today. But again, the insurance industry has done a good job of crafting new, different types of insurance products. The question, of course, is which one makes sense, if any at all? My name is Michael McKelvey. This is your Life Simplified, brought to you by Mariner Wealth Advisors. Jerry, let's just start right off the bat here with the indexed universal life policy. Help us understand what this is. Well, so it's a general account asset product, and we'll circle back to that here in a second. So that's, that's a very important thing to know, in my opinion. It was introduced to pretty much take advantage of a marketing force that agents, if you will, that did not have insurance investment licenses. And so they wanted to create something that competed with a variable platform, which does require the securities appointments. Right. And so they plugged into that, and then they built a lot of bells and whistles around it, guardrails, if you will. So the idea is that you could go out there and tell a client that you won't drop below, say, zero. And certain products do different things, but let's just say a floor. Right, right. And the trade off is that you're going to give up some of the top end. Okay. So they call those cap rates. So that's pretty much the general description of what index Universal Life is. Right. So you have this floor in the ceiling, and they'll attach it to some index. Let's say it's attached to the S&P 500 index, your money with an IUL, the acronym for this, in index universal life, is not actually invested into the S&P5. You're not purchasing that index, but the performance will mirror what that index does within that floor in that cap. So if the S&P 500 does 15 for that year, 15% up, and you have a cap of 7% or 8%, you'd be capped at whatever that cap was. 7 or 8% if the floor is zero, if we're understanding you correctly here, Jerry, and let's say The S&P 500 has a year like this year, and maybe it just finishes down, you know, roughly what it is right now, 15 to 20%. You would finish with 0% if you had a floor of 0% with that IUL. Is that correct? That's right. Okay. So I think that's important to highlight because, yes, you're giving up on the upside, but you're, you're limiting on the downside. Now, a couple other factors here that I think are worth noting. Participation rate and the guarantees on those floors and ceilings. I think that's something that probably a lot of people skim over, but is probably very important. Right? Yeah. I mean, but each, each, each company, each product is going to be different. So that's one of those things that you can't really cover on a podcast, per se. You got to really dial in with your agent and figure out what product he or she's showing you, and then, you know, figure those things out. What guarantees are associated with it. Yeah, I think that's always worth at least noting those. Hey, make sure you check and see what guarantees are associated, whatever policy you're looking at right now. One thing I was going to say the, you know, one, One criticism, if I may, and we're product agnostic, by the way, but we, we do have opinions. Right. So one criticism I have is they took what was seemingly one of the most simple concepts in the world, and through the small arms race, they've kind of made it the most complicated product that you could buy in the marketplace. Yes. It seemed like at the start you could just go out there and buy a product and feel very comfortable with what you're buying right now. It's one of these things that you, you really have to keep your agent at task and explaining exactly what it is he or she's trying to sell you. Yes, yes. It's much more complex. Same thing in the annuity industry in a lot of ways. Right. We've seen new rollouts that have made it maybe a little bit more complex. And so yeah, it does take some time to understand these policies. Now the VUL for a. Throw it back maybe even further because the VUL was, you know, came out prior to the IUL from my understanding. Right, correct. Walk us through the differences between Variable Universal Life and Indexed Universal Life. Explain that. Well, I like to start with what I call an insurance 101 conversation. I don't know how much time we have here today, but when you buy an insurance product, whatever you buy, whether it's Whole Life, Universal Index or variable, the first thing that's going to happen is the insurance company is going to make money. I know that shocks many of you, but there are components to the transaction. So you have the cost of Surprising. Yeah, very surprising. Yeah. They build big buildings. Right. So you have cost of insurance administration commissions and return on equity. I call it the ugly ingredients. How sausage is made don't necessarily like it. But you know, at the end of the day we maybe like the taste of sausage, for example, maybe, maybe not. I don't know. So in this case, Variable Life came as a result of investors wanting to get a market return. They wanted to participate straight up with the ebb and flows of whatever portfolio they create. And these Variable Life contracts, you know, there's usually 100 different options that you can invest in. And so the concept there is you're, you're not going to have these cap rates and you're not going to have these floors. You're going to put your money to work straight up in a daily valued fund, separately indexed account and you're going to get a return and you're going to live with those consequences. Index Universal Life. As you know, we've got the guardrails, but you have the expenses associated with that. The other thing that's very different between Index Universal Life and Variable Life is Variable Life is separately indexed accounts, meaning that they're not the general account liability, they're not subject to the liabilities of the general account. Yes. And we saw like in, oh, what was it, 1990, 91, we had five multi billion dollar name brand receiverships with Executive Life, First Capital, Fidelity Bankers, Monarch Life and Mutual Benefit. If I remember correctly, of the five, four of them were general account asset type of products in the Monarch Life in that particular case was a separately indexed account and we had what, three to five days to sell them. I can't remember what the laws were back then, but people that wanted out of the variable life got out with whatever their account Value was the day that they cashed them out. Okay. Whereas general account products, you're subject to the regulators coming in and renegotiating terms and conditions and perhaps a, a buyer, but that's going down a big rabbit hole. No, but I, I, I've, I've worked a lot with really large transactions and when, when you're dealing with very large transactions, it's very important to people that their cash values are not in the general account of an insurance company. It seems to be, anyways. Yeah, yeah, I think those are some important distinguishing points. And I think again, you know, just looking at it, what it seems from afar, if you were to, you know, maybe compare this, you know, the VUL to the IUL or to the Whole Life is the vul probably, you know, if you were to again, generalize, maybe has the least amount of guarantees in the long run as far as, what, you know, how much your cash value is protected and, you know, the cash value not to get too deep into it, but would be that asset that you can, you know, take advantage of while you're living, that you can borrow against, use within your life, but you don't have the same guarantees with a view. Well, but you also have theoretically more upside depending on how the investment performs. A lot of people got in trouble with that, you know, decades ago with what happened to the.com in 2008. You know, their VUL policies just simply did not perform. But again, if we're to differentiate their variable universal life, the money that you put towards the policy, the cash value that's actually going to be invested, and the, the difference, the key difference here would be less guarantees in comparison to maybe a Whole Life or iul, but more upside if we're going to condense there now that brings in our third product, thank you, insurance industry, the Whole Life policy. Help us understand the Whole Life Policy, which is, I would say, the flagship product of the permanent life insurance world, is probably the product that most people have at least heard of before the other two, it's been around the longest in comparison to the other two. So maybe help us understand how Whole Life is different from these other two permanent life insurance products. Well, when I think of Whole Life, I think of the wizard of Oz, the man behind the curtain. And we really don't know what's going on behind the curtain. We kind of just take the word for the insurance company that they're a highly rated company and that they're going to do really good things with their general account, that they're going to invest appropriately so that the rating agencies don't take issue with, you know, their solvency, for example. And there's some very good whole life companies out there that just live and breathe triple A rating and that's what they want to do. You know, at the end of the day, you know, there's different types of whole life insurance. So you know, you have the level premium whole life insurance that you paid age 65, you have whole life that you pay. Beyond that you can do 10 pay whole life. But the whole concept is that you have guaranteed premium, you have guaranteed death benefit, and if you're in a participating company that they declare a dividend, then that dividend can come back to you in the form of reducing premium payments or you can take it in cash where you could by paid up additional amounts of insurance, which is the default for whole life. So yeah, typically the default. Yeah, but you're not the problem here. Gotta understand there's not real, there's no flexibility here as far as premiums go. So that premium comes to you. Flexibility, yes, definitely less flexibility. Gotta pay that premium. And if you don't pay the premium, you tend to go on what's called automatic premium loan. It's an acronym apl. And when that happens, you know, you start to cannibalize your, your own policy. So. Right. If we were to simplify, and again, I know there's anecdotal evidence that you can find for each of these products, but if we were to simplify, Whole life largely speaking has the most guarantees typically in comparison to an IUL or a vul. Right. It's the most insurance like permanent policy oftentimes amongst the three. Again, that's not a universal saying or universal definition there. It's just that it's typically going to give you less upside in comparison to a VUL or an iul, otherwise why would those products even exist? Right, I would agree. So the whole life policy. Now reasons why someone might consider permanent insurance versus term. I think I would love to hear your thoughts on this. And there's obviously a lot to talk about on this, but I think the most typical scenario here is somebody goes and sits down with an insurance agent, they come back and they start asking questions about permanent life insurance. Because that insurance agent probably talked about permanent life insurance in that policy if they're from some captive company. So the question is, when does it make sense? What, when should we even consider a permanent policy? What are the benefits to a permanent policy versus just buying term and let's say investing the Difference. Well, so one of my mentor by the way, I'm pushing my fourth decade in the business. I've been, been around a minute and I got started in the, you know, with whole life salespeople as well and one of the gentlemen that mentored me in the business, he asked me the question, he said what's the best kind of life insurance to own? So I gave my college graduate answer and he laughed at me. And, and he said no, it's the kind that's in force when you die. And, and it got me to thinking here, you know, he's right. And now here, nearly four, four decades later, I think about all the death claims I've paid and no one's ever asked me when I deliver a death claim. Hey, did mom or dad, did they buy whole life universal index? You. They don't ask that. They want to know is check good? Great. And so, so when you have a temporary need. So you're a young married couple and you're my daughter's 26, I got a three year old grand grandson and matter of fact they're at the attorney today doing their estate plan. So there you go. Yeah, it's kind of fast. Tell them to tune in. Yeah, so you know when, when you're, when you're that young and you're struggling to buy house and houses in their case I've got two of them now and doing things that you know, we advise people to do as, as advisors, they really don't have in their budget the money to buy permanent insurance. So they're most concerned with what happens in the next 20 years while their 3 year old becomes a 23 year old and how much of this liability are they going to retire? So I advise them to pick up a big 20 year term policy. So it's going to have a level premium for, for 20 years and that 21st premium is going to come due and they're going to have sticker shock and they're going to say ooh, that's not, I can't pay that. And if they're uninsurable and they have no conversion privileges, they're just done buying life insurance at that point in time. So that's term insurance, it's temporary coverage for a temporary need. And you know, you're protecting mortgages and, and like I said, obligations for, for children growing up. Permanent needs is like your estate planning, you know, estate taxes, that's something you die and take to the grave with you. And so you're now exploring what are the best permanent options out there to buy in and say an irrevocable life insurance trust, a policy that will help with the estate planning process. Right. So that's the main difference event. And the other one we see a lot of is pension maximization. We don't see it as much anymore because pensions are kind of much less frequent. Much less frequent. I wish they would come back. Yeah, they changed a lot of the ways pensions were structured. I think from my understanding, from what I remember, you know, pensions have just changed in their payout options and that has also been part of the reason why pension maxes are just less prevalent. They make, they make sense less, but they can still. Right. Definitely that's a permanent need though. For example. So if you ever do have somebody that is trying to decide between do I take full pension or do I take the survivorship option, oftentimes they'll take the, the, the difference between the two. They'll buy life insurance and elect for the full, full annuity. For, for. Right. So to summarize, term, when there's a temporary need, and I think the easiest one to think of is that young family in this case, you know, the daughter, right, mentioned, it's doing the estate plan right now, now permanent, when there's more of a permanent need. And I think therein lies the question of, okay, well, what's kind of the hierarchy of money? Like when should I even be considering this? Because you know, you likely have a multitude of options available to you. You almost certainly do, right? Not just investment options, but vehicles you can place your money. You have your 401k, you have an HSA, you have your Roth potentially that you can put money into. So when should you even consider permanent life insurance? And I think unfortunately you sit down with some insurance agents, they will tell you that you should always have permanent life insurance, that that should always be a part of your plan. I struggle with that one. Again, we limit our opinions. I do too somewhat in the show. I very much struggle with that. But I will also say that, you know, you shouldn't write off permanent life insurance for your whole life. Not to give a whole life plug there, but you shouldn't because there are some serious tax benefits to doing this, especially from an estate planning standpoint, that it just doesn't help to be closed minded. And again, like just be product agnostic like you mentioned and just say, hey, I'm open to considering different options. And if insurance presents itself and you have a, you know, a tax free way that is more attractive than the alternative being some taxable option, maybe for your estate. Well, yeah. Why do you even care what type of product is getting you there? You should just care about essentially the guarantees or the different specifics that come with that tool. Right. So I appreciate you breaking this down. I know it's, it's a, it's a load and there's complexity in everything. We could spend time in a whole episode talking about just even subsets of each of these products. But. Right. I do think we accomplished again key differences here between the three whole life more guarantees typically much more of an insurance like product. You have a dividend, typically the company's paying out to you. Vul the money is going to be invested almost in securities like fashion, more upside, less insurance like largely speaking and IUL being somewhere in between. There you have that floor and that ceiling that you typically see. Appreciate your time here, Jerry. This has been helpful. If you're listening to this podcast on Apple, Spotify, YouTube, wherever you might be listening, make sure you hit that subscribe button so you don't miss out on any industry insights from industry professionals here at Mariner Wealth Advisors. You guys take care. Cheers. Mariner Wealth Advisors, or mwa, is an SEC Registered investment Advisor with its principal place of business in the State of Kansas. Registration of an investment advisor does not imply a certain level of of skill or training. MWA is in compliance with the current notice filing requirements opposed upon registered investment advisors by those states in which MWA maintains clients. MWA may only transact business in those states in which it is notice filed or qualifies for an exemption or exclusion from notice filing requirements. Any subsequent direct communication by MWA with a prospective client shall be conducted by a representative that is either registered or qualifies for an exemption or exclusion from registration in the state where the prospective client resides. For additional information about mwa, including fees and services, please contact MWA or refer to the Investment Advisor public disclosure website at www.advisorinfo.sec.gov. please read the disclosure statement carefully before you invest or send money. The views expressed in this podcast is for educational purposes only and do not take into account any individual personal, financial, legal or tax considerations. As such, the information contained herein is not intended to be personal, legal, investment or tax advice. Nothing herein should be relied upon as such and there is no guarantee that any claims made will come to pass. The opinions are based on information and sources of information deemed to be reliable, but Mariner Wealth Advisors does not does not warrant the accuracy of the information. Asset allocation diversification is a strategy designed to manage risk but it cannot ensure a profit or protect against a loss in a declining market. Certified Financial Planner Trademark, CFP Registered Trademark and Federally Registered CFP with Flame Design Marks. Collectively, the CFP Registered Marks are professional certification marks granted in the United States by Certified Financial Planner Board of Standards, Inc. Also CFP Board. The CFP Registered Trademark Certification is a voluntary certification. No federal or state law or regulation requires financial planners to hold the CFP Certification.