Welcome back to the Fall Topics. That's it for me with Netflix. Man, what a, what a disappointment that was. Let's get into it. Welcome back to the show. Just had to dive in right away after that complete shit show that we just watched of a publicity stunt by Netflix. Again this Sean with the Fall Topics. Please leave comments. Love to hear what everybody thinks about that. The the Tyson and Jake Paul fight. Please again leave comments. Like our videos follow us. We're always looking to continue having a blast. So we've been anticipating this for a week or two. I've been talking to buddies and friends and saying, you know, this. I called it, I absolutely called it. I said it was going to be a complete joke. All the hype. Now the first couple fights before that, especially the Katie Taylor fight, that was a fun fight to watch. Amanda Serrano and Katie Taylor. Well, a lot of questionable things going on with that headbutting. I, I gotta feel like they were accidents. But that, that, that ref should have been, should have been on top of that early on, man, that, that Tyson fight was just an absolute joke. And for obvious reasons, you know, we can't be playing video highlights as of right now, just aired. Copyright infringement, all that kind of stuff. But if anybody, if you all watched it, you know, what an absolute joke that was. Some immediately that want to believe that this crap is real. Well, Tyson's an old man. Of course he's an old man. I get it. He's 58 years old. Jake Paul is a piece of shit. He's not a real boxer, okay? He does these publicity fights. He fights retired people, he fights Silva. It just goes on and on. He's not a real fighter, he's not a real contender. Well, he's professional, he's getting paid. Yet he's a joke rolling in there. That stupid car with the Phil Collins song playing. We all saw the movie Hangover. Had to have picked that song because of Mike Tyson. When that song kicks in with the drum section and he knocks out Andy from the office and then the. Did you, did you notice? You know, I didn't catch. Before I get too far ahead here, it was just an insult. Number one to boxing and number two to Mike Tyson. Now Mike Tyson, I've been such a huge fan of Mike Tyson's growing up with him, watching him fight, knowing his, his history as a kid, what he went through and his trainer customato and when Cus died and everything that that man's been through from the being young and just laying people out right away, his troubles with the law going to prison, getting back into the ring, the Buster Douglas fight, which to this day, it's so, for me, painful to watch, but it's so great to watch. You know, watching Buster Douglas, everybody knows that first hit before Tyson, before the series, when Tyson was getting ready to go down. And it's in slow motion, you can watch it now. And you see Buster Douglas, his eyes light up when it just like that split second kicks in that he's about to knock down Mike Tyson. I mean, it was such a great fight. Lennox Lewis, all those years, you know, like Michael Jordan growing up in that era, you know, you felt you were with them, especially Mike Tyson. The passion that that man brought to that, to that sport is, is unlike anybody's ever seen. You know, you can go down that, that rabbit hole, Cassius Clay and, you know, Liston and all these guys. Something just different about Tyson. And you can see in his later years he's tried to make peace with his demons. And I think he's, I think he's such an impressive man. I mean, he really is an amazing, incredible man. So he decided to do this. Maybe he needed a paycheck. But the hype and the hype and the smacking Jake Paul on the, on the stage there, and I'm not going to lose those little press conferences, the entire thing to me just felt like a complete sham. I just couldn't take any of it seriously. And I was telling everybody, oh, well, yeah, I mean, you got to consider he's, he's, he's 58 years old. You know, he's not. I get that. But what we just watched there, that was not Mike Tyson. The way he walked out, you can see it in his eyes. I mean, I get it. He's an old man. Yeah, it's. But Jake Paul, that guy is a complete piece of shit. And he just makes a complete mock. Mockery of, of boxing. I don't know. You know, they, they allow this to continue because it clearly makes a bunch of money. Everybody wanted to see Mike Tyson go in there, knock him out. I knew right away that wasn't going to happen. I called it a week ago. It was going to be a nothing fight. And at the end they'd shake hands, have a little sweet little talk that. I mean, you heard people booing. Excuse me. Especially everybody waiting to watch that in the, the money they spent for those seats. And on and on it goes. Just to be. Everybody must have just felt had. I know I did. Well, no, I didn't. I was trying to tell everybody. I was sitting there just going, now, as a joke, very first round, I was like, yep, there it is. You know, Mike Tyson came out dancing his feet around. I was like, okay, see what he's going to do here. Landed a couple little jabs. You could tell Jake Paul for a split second in that first round was like, oh, wait, are we not following the script? Because he tagged him a couple times and Jake Paul felt that power. Somebody I hope someday just knocks Jake Paul's dick into the dirt and say, oh, would you fight him? Well, of course not. I wouldn't fight him. I'm not a trained fighter. He clearly trains to fight. He is a boxer, but he's not a real boxer. He's no threat to any, any heavyweights, any title fights. That's why he does this crap. So that, that whole thing, yeah, it was pretty frustrating. It was, it was such a strange, frustrating, but I told you so at the same time. I mean, my whole family, we were watching it and everybody just got the exact same feeling like, what is going on here? So all that hype, all that constant hype that they did. Well, what, what, what we've done now is I've completely canceled my, my, my Netflix account. And that's been a long time coming. Been a long time coming. Watching that whole thing just, just sealed the deal. You know, the stuff that we've saw recently with, with the stuff that was going on over the past few years with the dancing around, sexualizing kids, just the garbage that's on there now. You know, you're going to watch the Menendez story now. You can't make it one episode in without seeing one of the brothers go down on, on a guy. We got to have this crap thrown in our faces. There's another, there's another Netflix special right now, man, I can't remember the name of it. It's a prison release, one escape, something. And of course, every episode, you gotta have guys banging Patricia Arquette. Patricia Arquette. It's just, it's just turned into just garbage. The only reason I was keeping, the only reason I kept Netflix for so long was because of Seinfeld. You know, I've got all the Blu Rays and all that, but it's just nice having it there. Just did a click often. Seinfeld in my house is on a 24 hour loop, including the Office. Man, I love the Office. The Office, though, is not on, on Netflix. However, we're done with it because that, that, that Netflix machine, that's all that was. It was Just a publicity stunt and they made a bunch of money. And hey, I'm waiting for consumers to, to figure it out. When the power of the consumer, I mean from everything, from your, your phone bill, power bill, taxes, if everybody, gas, if everybody. And I'm not, okay, let's not say all of America, but we'll say 50 million people. If 50 million people 1 day canceled their Netflix, didn't go to the gas station, called up Verizon, canceled there just one day, it would be really inconvenient for people. It would be difficult. I get it, we're all in our busy lives. But that one day of sacrifice would make these big companies do 100% about face and go, what? Whoa. Just like what we saw politically. We saw that big red wave that just happened. The people spoke, they're tired of the crap. And that should be a huge signal to everybody about the power that we really have. If anybody else out there is tired of the garbage from Netflix, tired of being played. Because that's what that was. That's what that whole Mike Tyson thing was. And Jake Paul, that we were just played and they got a ton of money. People subscribed to Netflix just to watch that. And now that they got it, it's. Well, yeah, we'll keep it. We're there for the trial. What is it? The 14 day trial. And then after that, you know, you just forget you're busy. You don't go and actually cancel it after 14 days. Most people don't. And then six, six months later, five years later, I mean, I, my wife and I, we, when we had our first child, we were doing. And maybe many have, but I mean, many of the young people today have no idea. But we used to actually have to go to. It was when Blockbuster was kind of on the edge of falling apart. Netflix had those boxes outside. You could, you know, go and get a disc, then you could start going to and you'd return the disc, but then you'd go to their website and just pick, you know, I gotch. I wanna say it was like 4 99amonth and you could just go and pick like five or six movies. They mailed them to you, you played the DVDs, then you went and dropped them off. And how quickly it turned into the streaming services. And then Roku came out and Voodoo and all this other stuff, it's. It's a changed world now. And Netflix has a great impressive business model. I mean, they're just great at marketing. I mean, it's just fantastic. And that's what they did tonight. That's what they've been doing for the past two weeks. I'm so curious what those conversations were like with. With Tyson and his management and the Netflix management about, you know, getting him to get into that ring and do that. Because it was really, for me, watching Tyson go through that, that was sad. Maybe he's. Maybe it's atonement. Maybe he's trying to make peace with the demons in his life. I mean, it was really strange, you know, especially when you've been watching his workout videos, how he's been training. I mean, look fantastic for being 58. Now, again, I say I wouldn't fight either of these guys. I'm not a. I wouldn't claim to because I'm not a trained fighter. But that, man, this Jake Paul guy, is just a complete douchebag, 100% douchebag. And people keep want. I think they've mastered. That's got to be the only thing they've mastered, marketing on him. Because I think so many people like myself do want to see somebody who is actually a respected fighter, you know, who's young, not on their way out, not retired, somebody go in there and just knock his dick into the dirt. A lot of people want to see that. That's what I suspect, because, man, I'd be at the bar the next day, buying the entire bar their first couple rounds on me. That guy, he needs to be taken down a notch. And in a way, Netflix is doing him a disservice. Our Internet society is doing him a disservice. They're making him believe he's something that he's not. So that was it for us. I. I just had it. There's gonna be no more Netflix in my house. Felt good to finally get rid of that. Been on. Like I said, I've been on the fence for a while, and. Perfect example. I mean, I am that example. I. Forget about it. Go to work. You're tired. Yeah, I need to cancel it. An episode of Seinfeld's on. I'm. I'm. I'm guilty as well. But that was the last. That was the last straw. So I canceled our account. We're done with that. I wish Mike Tyson a, you know, happy retirement. Mike Tyson. I have always been a huge fan of him, but not just a fan, but really admire him, because that is, if there's ever an image of what. And there's a lot. A lot of people like this, not just Mike Tyson, but those ones that really are a role model, especially for young people in this very, very difficult world right now. So I. I wish him the best. Just don't know why he did that unless he just really felt in his heart of hearts he was doing a good thing for Jake Paul, trying to help boost his career and just be the better guy. Because there were. What. I mean, it felt like Maybe in those eight rounds, it felt like maybe 25 punches were thrown by Mike. I mean, you saw early on he could still move his feet. And I get it, he was tired. He's winded. But, man, again, circling back to, like, what I said earlier, that the training that they've showed is working out. He's a beast for being 58. And we just. Our jaws are on the ground. We couldn't even. Couldn't we. Why wasn't he putting that in there? Everybody knows he could destroy Jake Paul in five or six solid punches. And you saw it early on, like I said earlier, there were a couple. Couple shots that he took that Jake started backing up like, oh, this isn't part. You know, it just. The whole thing feels like, you know, the World Wrestling Federation or. It's not WWF anymore, is it? What? Wwe. That's what it feels like. It just felt like a scripted. I mean, my goodness, you might as well had Randy Macho Savage sitting out there. Oh, and one last thing. I don't know what came of it. If everybody knows Mike Tyson and kind of his youth, he had a tough time. And do you know the story about his pigeons in his pigeon coop and how. How awful that was at those. What those bullies did? And then did you guys notice in that car, Jake Paul had a cage with pigeons in it? That just shows what a. No class. Just. Just bum. He is a. He's not even a bum. I mean, he's just a complete piece of trash with money. And that's what a lot of those people don't realize, that you can have all those, you know, hundreds of millions of dollars, you're still a piece of trash that nobody respects. He has to buy his friends and his little entourage that follows him around everywhere. That's a whole nother. Yeah, that was unfortunate. So, like I said, we canceled our subscription. If anybody else. Again, this final say on this, if anybody else is feeling like that, that they just got hosed by Netflix, Cancel your subscription. That's the best way to send a message. Thanks again, everybody, for tuning in and, like, subscribe, give comments. Let us know what you think about that Netflix fight or the Tyson fight. Because it was. It was pretty disappointing. Thanks, everyone. You.